No , it was n't Black Monday .
But while the New York Stock Exchange did n't fall apart Friday as the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- it barely managed to stay this side of chaos .
Some `` circuit breakers '' installed after the October 1987 crash failed their first test , traders say , unable to cool the selling panic in both stocks and futures .
The 49 stock specialist firms on the Big Board floor -- the buyers and sellers of last resort who were criticized after the 1987 crash -- once again could n't handle the selling pressure .
Big investment banks refused to step up to the plate to support the beleaguered floor traders by buying big blocks of stock , traders say .
Heavy selling of Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures in Chicago relentlessly beat stocks downward .
Seven Big Board stocks -- UAL , AMR , BankAmerica , Walt Disney , Capital Cities\/ABC , Philip Morris and Pacific Telesis Group -- stopped trading and never resumed .
The finger-pointing has already begun .
`` The equity market was illiquid .
Once again -LCB- the specialists -RCB- were not able to handle the imbalances on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange , '' said Christopher Pedersen , senior vice president at Twenty-First Securities Corp .
Countered James Maguire , chairman of specialists Henderson Brothers Inc. : `` It is easy to say the specialist is n't doing his job .
When the dollar is in a free-fall , even central banks ca n't stop it .
Speculators are calling for a degree of liquidity that is not there in the market . ''
Many money managers and some traders had already left their offices early Friday afternoon on a warm autumn day -- because the stock market was so quiet .
Then in a lightning plunge , the Dow Jones industrials in barely an hour surrendered about a third of their gains this year , chalking up a 190.58-point , or 6.9 % , loss on the day in gargantuan trading volume .
Final-hour trading accelerated to 108.1 million shares , a record for the Big Board .
At the end of the day , 251.2 million shares were traded .
The Dow Jones industrials closed at 2569.26 .
The Dow 's decline was second in point terms only to the 508-point Black Monday crash that occurred Oct. 19 , 1987 .
In percentage terms , however , the Dow 's dive was the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since the market fell 156.83 , or 8 % , a week after Black Monday .
The Dow fell 22.6 % on Black Monday .
Shares of UAL , the parent of United Airlines , were extremely active all day Friday , reacting to news and rumors about the proposed $ 6.79 billion buy-out of the airline by an employee-management group .
Wall Street 's takeover-stock speculators , or `` risk arbitragers , '' had placed unusually large bets that a takeover would succeed and UAL stock would rise .
At 2:43 p.m. EDT , came the sickening news : The Big Board was halting trading in UAL , `` pending news . ''
On the exchange floor , `` as soon as UAL stopped trading , we braced for a panic , '' said one top floor trader .
Several traders could be seen shaking their heads when the news flashed .
For weeks , the market had been nervous about takeovers , after Campeau Corp. 's cash crunch spurred concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers .
And 10 minutes after the UAL trading halt came news that the UAL group could n't get financing for its bid .
At this point , the Dow was down about 35 points .
The market crumbled .
Arbitragers could n't dump their UAL stock -- but they rid themselves of nearly every `` rumor '' stock they had .
For example , their selling caused trading halts to be declared in USAir Group , which closed down 3 7\/8 to 41 1\/2 , Delta Air Lines , which fell 7 3\/4 to 69 1\/4 , and Philips Industries , which sank 3 to 21 1\/2 .
These stocks eventually reopened .
But as panic spread , speculators began to sell blue-chip stocks such as Philip Morris and International Business Machines to offset their losses .
When trading was halted in Philip Morris , the stock was trading at 41 , down 3 3\/8 , while IBM closed 5 5\/8 lower at 102 .
Selling snowballed because of waves of automatic `` stop-loss '' orders , which are triggered by computer when prices fall to certain levels .
Most of the stock selling pressure came from Wall Street professionals , including computer-guided program traders .
Traders said most of their major institutional investors , on the other hand , sat tight .
Now , at 3:07 , one of the market 's post-crash `` reforms '' took hold as the S&P 500 futures contract had plunged 12 points , equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the Dow industrials .
Under an agreement signed by the Big Board and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange , trading was temporarily halted in Chicago .
After the trading halt in the S&P 500 pit in Chicago , waves of selling continued to hit stocks themselves on the Big Board , and specialists continued to notch prices down .
As a result , the link between the futures and stock markets ripped apart .
Without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of where traders think the overall stock market is headed -- many traders were afraid to trust stock prices quoted on the Big Board .
The futures halt was even assailed by Big Board floor traders .
`` It screwed things up , '' said one major specialist .
This confusion effectively halted one form of program trading , stock index arbitrage , that closely links the futures and stock markets , and has been blamed by some for the market 's big swings .
-LRB- In a stock-index arbitrage sell program , traders buy or sell big baskets of stocks and offset the trade in futures to lock in a price difference . -RRB-
`` When the airline information came through , it cracked every model we had for the marketplace , '' said a managing director at one of the largest program-trading firms .
`` We did n't even get a chance to do the programs we wanted to do . ''
But stocks kept falling .
The Dow industrials were down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt .
At 3:30 p.m. , at the end of the `` cooling off '' period , the average was down 114.76 points .
Meanwhile , during the the S&P trading halt , S&P futures sell orders began piling up , while stocks in New York kept falling sharply .
Big Board Chairman John J. Phelan said yesterday the circuit breaker `` worked well mechanically .
I just think it 's nonproductive at this point to get into a debate if index arbitrage would have helped or hurt things . ''
Under another post-crash system , Big Board President Richard Grasso -LRB- Mr. Phelan was flying to Bangkok as the market was falling -RRB- was talking on an `` inter-exchange hot line '' to the other exchanges , the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve Board .
He camped out at a high-tech nerve center on the floor of the Big Board , where he could watch updates on prices and pending stock orders .
At about 3:30 p.m. EDT , S&P futures resumed trading , and for a brief time the futures and stock markets started to come back in line .
Buyers stepped in to the futures pit .
But the build-up of S&P futures sell orders weighed on the market , and the link with stocks began to fray again .
At about 3:45 , the S&P market careened to still another limit , of 30 points down , and trading was locked again .
Futures traders say the S&P was signaling that the Dow could fall as much as 200 points .
During this time , small investors began ringing their brokers , wondering whether another crash had begun .
At Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. , which is trying to cater to small investors , some demoralized brokers thought this would be the final confidence-crusher .
That 's when George L. Ball , chairman of the Prudential Insurance Co. of America unit , took to the internal intercom system to declare that the plunge was only `` mechanical . ''
`` I have a hunch that this particular decline today is something ` more ado about less . '
It would be my inclination to advise clients not to sell , to look for an opportunity to buy , '' Mr. Ball told the brokers .
At Merrill Lynch & Co. , the nation 's biggest brokerage firm , a news release was prepared headlined `` Merrill Lynch Comments on Market Drop . ''
The release cautioned that `` there are significant differences between the current environment and that of October 1987 '' and that there are still `` attractive investment opportunities '' in the stock market .
However , Jeffrey B. Lane , president of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. , said that Friday 's plunge is `` going to set back '' relations with customers , `` because it reinforces the concern of volatility .
And I think a lot of people will harp on program trading .
It 's going to bring the debate right back to the forefront . ''
As the Dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss Friday , the S&P pit stayed locked at its 30-point trading limit .
Jeffrey Yass of program trader Susquehanna Investment Group said 2,000 S&P contracts were for sale on the close , the equivalent of $ 330 million in stock .
But there were no buyers .
While Friday 's debacle involved mainly professional traders rather than investors , it left the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning , traders said .
Stock-index futures contracts settled at much lower prices than indexes of the stock market itself .
At those levels , stocks are set up to be hammered by index arbitragers , who lock in profits by buying futures when futures prices fall , and simultaneously sell off stocks .
But nobody knows at what level the futures and stocks will open today .
The de-linkage between the stock and futures markets Friday will undoubtedly cause renewed debate about whether Wall Street is properly prepared for another crash situation .
The Big Board 's Mr. Grasso said , `` Our systemic performance was good . ''
But the exchange will `` look at the performance of all specialists in all stocks .
Obviously we 'll take a close look at any situation in which we think the dealer-community obligations were n't met , '' he said .
-LRB- See related story : `` Fed Ready to Inject Big Funds '' -- WSJ Oct. 16 , 1989 -RRB-
But specialists complain privately that just as in the 1987 crash , the `` upstairs '' firms -- big investment banks that support the market by trading big blocks of stock -- stayed on the sidelines during Friday 's blood-letting .
Mr. Phelan said , `` It will take another day or two '' to analyze who was buying and selling Friday .
Concerning your Sept. 21 page-one article on Prince Charles and the leeches : It 's a few hundred years since England has been a kingdom .
It 's now the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , comprising Wales , Northern Ireland , Scotland , and ... oh yes , England , too .
Just thought you 'd like to know .
George Morton
Ports of Call Inc. reached agreements to sell its remaining seven aircraft to buyers that were n't disclosed .
The agreements bring to a total of nine the number of planes the travel company has sold this year as part of a restructuring .
The company said a portion of the $ 32 million realized from the sales will be used to repay its bank debt and other obligations resulting from the currently suspended air-charter operations .
Earlier the company announced it would sell its aging fleet of Boeing Co. 707s because of increasing maintenance costs .
A consortium of private investors operating as LJH Funding Co. said it has made a $ 409 million cash bid for most of L.J. Hooker Corp. 's real-estate and shopping-center holdings .
The $ 409 million bid includes the assumption of an estimated $ 300 million in secured liabilities on those properties , according to those making the bid .
The group is led by Jay Shidler , chief executive officer of Shidler Investment Corp. in Honolulu , and A. Boyd Simpson , chief executive of the Atlanta-based Simpson Organization Inc .
Mr. Shidler 's company specializes in commercial real-estate investment and claims to have $ 1 billion in assets ; Mr. Simpson is a developer and a former senior executive of L.J. Hooker .
`` The assets are good , but they require more money and management '' than can be provided in L.J. Hooker 's current situation , said Mr. Simpson in an interview . ``
Hooker 's philosophy was to build and sell .
We want to build and hold . ''
L.J. Hooker , based in Atlanta , is operating with protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code .
Its parent company , Hooker Corp. of Sydney , Australia , is currently being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator .
Sanford Sigoloff , chief executive of L.J. Hooker , said yesterday in a statement that he has not yet seen the bid but that he would review it and bring it to the attention of the creditors committee .
The $ 409 million bid is estimated by Mr. Simpson as representing 75 % of the value of all Hooker real-estate holdings in the U.S. .
Not included in the bid are Bonwit Teller or B. Altman & Co. , L.J. Hooker 's department-store chains .
The offer covers the massive 1.8 million-square-foot Forest Fair Mall in Cincinnati , the 800,000 square-foot Richland Fashion Mall in Columbia , S.C. , and the 700,000 square-foot Thornton Town Center mall in Thornton , Colo .
The Thornton mall opened Sept. 19 with a Bigg 's hypermarket as its anchor ; the Columbia mall is expected to open Nov. 15 .
Other Hooker properties included are a 20-story office tower in midtown Atlanta , expected to be completed next February ; vacant land sites in Florida and Ohio ; L.J. Hooker International , the commercial real-estate brokerage company that once did business as Merrill Lynch Commercial Real Estate , plus other shopping centers .
The consortium was put together by Hoare Govett , the London-based investment banking company that is a subsidiary of Security Pacific Corp .
`` We do n't anticipate any problems in raising the funding for the bid , '' said Allan Campbell , the head of mergers and acquisitions at Hoare Govett , in an interview .
Hoare Govett is acting as the consortium 's investment bankers .
According to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named Project Klute , a reference to the film `` Klute '' in which a prostitute played by actress Jane Fonda is saved from a psychotic businessman by a police officer named John Klute .
L.J. Hooker was a small home-building company based in Atlanta in 1979 when Mr. Simpson was hired to push it into commercial development .
The company grew modestly until 1986 , when a majority position in Hooker Corp. was acquired by Australian developer George Herscu , currently Hooker 's chairman .
Mr. Herscu proceeded to launch an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that included Bonwit Teller and B. Altman & Co. , as well as majority positions in Merksamer Jewelers , a Sacramento chain ; Sakowitz Inc. , the Houston-based retailer , and Parisian Inc. , the Southeast department-store chain .
Eventually Mr. Simpson and Mr. Herscu had a falling out over the direction of the company , and Mr. Simpson said he resigned in 1988 .
Since then , Hooker Corp. has sold its interest in the Parisian chain back to Parisian 's management and is currently attempting to sell the B. Altman & Co. chain .
In addition , Robert Sakowitz , chief executive of the Sakowitz chain , is seeking funds to buy out the Hooker interest in his company .
The Merksamer chain is currently being offered for sale by First Boston Corp .
Reached in Honolulu , Mr. Shidler said that he believes the various Hooker malls can become profitable with new management .
`` These are n't mature assets , but they have the potential to be so , '' said Mr. Shidler .
`` Managed properly , and with a long-term outlook , these can become investment-grade quality properties .
Canadian steel-ingot production totaled 291,890 metric tons in the week ended Oct. 7 , up 14.8 % from the preceding week 's total of 254,280 tons , Statistics Canada , a federal agency , said .
The week 's total was up 6.2 % from 274,963 tons a year earlier .
The year-to-date total was 12,006,883 tons , up 7.8 % from 11,141,711 tons a year earlier .
The Treasury plans to raise $ 175 million in new cash Thursday by selling about $ 9.75 billion of 52-week bills and redeeming $ 9.58 billion of maturing bills .
The bills will be dated Oct. 26 and will mature Oct. 25 , 1990 .
They will be available in minimum denominations of $ 10,000 .
Bids must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Thursday at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches .
As small investors peppered their mutual funds with phone calls over the weekend , big fund managers said they have a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals : cash .
Unlike the weekend before Black Monday , the funds were n't swamped with heavy withdrawal requests .
And many fund managers have built up cash levels and say they will be buying stock this week .
At Fidelity Investments , the nation 's largest fund company , telephone volume was up sharply , but it was still at just half the level of the weekend preceding Black Monday in 1987 .
The Boston firm said stock-fund redemptions were running at less than one-third the level two years ago .
As of yesterday afternoon , the redemptions represented less than 15 % of the total cash position of about $ 2 billion of Fidelity 's stock funds .
`` Two years ago there were massive redemption levels over the weekend and a lot of fear around , '' said C. Bruce Johnstone , who runs Fidelity Investments ' $ 5 billion Equity-Income Fund .
`` This feels more like a one-shot deal .
People are n't panicking . ''
The test may come today .
Friday 's stock market sell-off came too late for many investors to act .
Some shareholders have held off until today because any fund exchanges made after Friday 's close would take place at today 's closing prices .
Stock fund redemptions during the 1987 debacle did n't begin to snowball until after the market opened on Black Monday .
But fund managers say they 're ready .
Many have raised cash levels , which act as a buffer against steep market declines .
Mario Gabelli , for instance , holds cash positions well above 20 % in several of his funds .
Windsor Fund 's John Neff and Mutual Series ' Michael Price said they had raised their cash levels to more than 20 % and 30 % , respectively , this year .
Even Peter Lynch , manager of Fidelity 's $ 12.7 billion Magellan Fund , the nation 's largest stock fund , built up cash to 7 % or $ 850 million .
One reason is that after two years of monthly net redemptions , the fund posted net inflows of money from investors in August and September .
`` I 've let the money build up , '' Mr. Lynch said , who added that he has had trouble finding stocks he likes .
Not all funds have raised cash levels , of course .
As a group , stock funds held 10.2 % of assets in cash as of August , the latest figures available from the Investment Company Institute .
That was modestly higher than the 8.8 % and 9.2 % levels in August and September of 1987 .
Also , persistent redemptions would force some fund managers to dump stocks to raise cash .
But a strong level of investor withdrawals is much more unlikely this time around , fund managers said .
A major reason is that investors already have sharply scaled back their purchases of stock funds since Black Monday .
Stock-fund sales have rebounded in recent months , but monthly net purchases are still running at less than half 1987 levels .
`` There 's not nearly as much froth , '' said John Bogle , chairman of Vanguard Group Inc. , a big Valley Forge , Pa. , fund company .
Many fund managers argue that now 's the time to buy .
Vincent Bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion Wellington Fund , added to his positions in Bristol-Myers Squibb , Woolworth and Dun & Bradstreet Friday .
And today he 'll be looking to buy drug stocks like Eli Lilly , Pfizer and American Home Products whose dividend yields have been bolstered by stock declines .
Fidelity 's Mr. Lynch , for his part , snapped up Southern Co. shares Friday after the stock got hammered .
If the market drops further today , he said he 'll be buying blue chips such as Bristol-Myers and Kellogg .
`` If they croak stocks like that , '' he said , it presents an opportunity that is `` the kind of thing you dream about . ''
Major mutual-fund groups said phone calls were arriving at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday .
But most investors were seeking share prices and other information .
Trading volume was only modestly higher than normal .
Still , fund groups are n't taking any chances .
They hope to avoid the jammed phone lines and other snags that infuriated some fund investors in October 1987 .
Fidelity on Saturday opened its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country .
The centers normally are closed through the weekend .
In addition , East Coast centers will open at 7:30 EDT this morning , instead of the normal 8:30 .
T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. increased its staff of phone representatives to handle investor requests .
The Baltimore-based group noted that some investors moved money from stock funds to money-market funds .
But most investors seemed to be `` in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode , '' said Steven Norwitz , a vice president .
And Vanguard , among other groups , said it was adding more phone representatives today to help investors get through .
In an unusual move , several funds moved to calm investors with recordings on their toll-free phone lines .
`` We view -LCB- Friday 's -RCB- market decline as offering us a buying opportunity as long-term investors , '' a recording at Gabelli & Co. funds said over the weekend .
The Janus Group had a similar recording for investors .
Several fund managers expect a rough market this morning before prices stabilize .
Some early selling is likely to stem from investors and portfolio managers who want to lock in this year 's fat profits .
Stock funds have averaged a staggering gain of 25 % through September , according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc .
Elaine Garzarelli , who runs Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. 's $ 335 million Sector Analysis Portfolio , predicts the market will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and `` some panic selling . ''
But she expects prices to rebound soon and is telling investors she expects the stock market wo n't decline more than 10 % to 15 % from recent highs .
`` This is not a major crash , '' she said .
Nevertheless , Ms. Garzarelli said she was swamped with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders .
`` Half of them are really scared and want to sell , '' she said , `` but I 'm trying to talk them out of it . ''
She added , `` If they all were bullish , I 'd really be upset . ''
The backdrop to Friday 's slide was markedly different from that of the October 1987 crash , fund managers argue .
Two years ago , unlike today , the dollar was weak , interest rates were rising and the market was very overvalued , they say .
`` From the investors ' standpoint , institutions and individuals learned a painful lesson ... by selling at the lows '' on Black Monday , said Stephen Boesel , manager of the $ 580 million T. Rowe Price Growth and Income Fund .
This time , `` I do n't think we 'll get a panic reaction .
Newport Corp. said it expects to report fiscal-first-quarter earnings of between 15 cents and 19 cents a share , somewhat below analysts ' estimates of 19 cents to 23 cents .
The maker of scientific instruments and laser parts said orders fell below expectations in recent months .
A spokesman added that sales in the current quarter will about equal the yearearlier quarter 's figure , when Newport reported net income of $ 1.7 million , or 21 cents a share , on $ 14.1 million in sales .
Ripples from the strike by 55,000 Machinists union members against Boeing Co. reached air carriers Friday as America West Airlines announced it will postpone its new service out of Houston because of delays in receiving aircraft from the Seattle jet maker .
Peter Otradovec , vice president for planning at the Phoenix , Ariz. , carrier , said in an interview that the work stoppage at Boeing , now entering its 13th day , `` has caused some turmoil in our scheduling '' and that more than 500 passengers who were booked to fly out of Houston on America West would now be put on other airlines .
Mr. Otradovec said Boeing told America West that the 757 it was supposed to get this Thursday would n't be delivered until Nov. 7 -- the day after the airline had been planning to initiate service at Houston with four daily flights , including three nonstops to Phoenix and one nonstop to Las Vegas .
Now , those routes are n't expected to begin until Jan .
Boeing is also supposed to send to America West another 757 twin-engine aircraft as well as a 737 by year 's end .
Those , too , are almost certain to arrive late .
At this point , no other America West flights -- including its new service at San Antonio , Texas ; Newark , N.J. ; and Palmdale , Calif. -- have been affected by the delays in Boeing deliveries .
Nevertheless , the company 's reaction underscores the domino effect that a huge manufacturer such as Boeing can have on other parts of the economy .
It also is sure to help the machinists put added pressure on the company .
`` I just do n't feel that the company can really stand or would want a prolonged walkout , '' Tom Baker , president of Machinists ' District 751 , said in an interview yesterday .
`` I do n't think their customers would like it very much . ''
America West , though , is a smaller airline and therefore more affected by the delayed delivery of a single plane than many of its competitors would be .
`` I figure that American and United probably have such a hard time counting all the planes in their fleets , they might not miss one at all , '' Mr. Otradovec said .
Indeed , a random check Friday did n't seem to indicate that the strike was having much of an effect on other airline operations .
Southwest Airlines has a Boeing 737-300 set for delivery at the end of this month and expects to have the plane on time .
`` It 's so close to completion , Boeing 's told us there wo n't be a problem , '' said a Southwest spokesman .
A spokesman for AMR Corp. said Boeing has assured American Airlines it will deliver a 757 on time later this month .
American is preparing to take delivery of another 757 in early December and 20 more next year and is n't anticipating any changes in that timetable .
In Seattle , a Boeing spokesman explained that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers and that it was impossible to predict what further disruptions might be triggered by the strike .
Meanwhile , supervisors and non-striking employees have been trying to finish some 40 aircraft -- mostly 747 and 767 jumbo jets at the company 's Everett , Wash. , plant -- that were all but completed before the walkout .
As of Friday , four had been delivered and a fifth plane , a 747-400 , was supposed to be flown out over the weekend to Air China .
No date has yet been set to get back to the bargaining table .
`` We want to make sure they know what they want before they come back , '' said Doug Hammond , the federal mediator who has been in contact with both sides since the strike began .
The investment community , for one , has been anticipating a speedy resolution .
Though Boeing 's stock price was battered along with the rest of the market Friday , it actually has risen over the last two weeks on the strength of new orders .
`` The market has taken two views : that the labor situation will get settled in the short term and that things look very rosy for Boeing in the long term , '' said Howard Rubel , an analyst at Cyrus J. Lawrence Inc .
Boeing 's shares fell $ 4 Friday to close at $ 57.375 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
But Mr. Baker said he thinks the earliest a pact could be struck would be the end of this month , hinting that the company and union may resume negotiations as early as this week .
Still , he said , it 's possible that the strike could last considerably longer .
`` I would n't expect an immediate resolution to anything . ''
Last week , Boeing Chairman Frank Shrontz sent striking workers a letter , saying that `` to my knowledge , Boeing 's offer represents the best overall three-year contract of any major U.S. industrial firm in recent history . ''
But Mr. Baker called the letter -- and the company 's offer of a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus bonuses -- `` very weak . ''
He added that the company miscalculated the union 's resolve and the workers ' disgust with being forced to work many hours overtime .
In separate developments : -- Talks have broken off between Machinists representatives at Lockheed Corp. and the Calabasas , Calif. , aerospace company .
The union is continuing to work through its expired contract , however .
It had planned a strike vote for next Sunday , but that has been pushed back indefinitely .
-- United Auto Workers Local 1069 , which represents 3,000 workers at Boeing 's helicopter unit in Delaware County , Pa. , said it agreed to extend its contract on a day-by-day basis , with a 10-day notification to cancel , while it continues bargaining .
The accord expired yesterday .
-- And Boeing on Friday said it received an order from Martinair Holland for four model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued at a total of about $ 326 million .
The planes , long range versions of the medium-haul twin-jet , will be delivered with Pratt & Whitney PW4060 engines .
Pratt & Whitney is a unit of United Technologies Inc .
Martinair Holland is based in Amsterdam .
A Boeing spokeswoman said a delivery date for the planes is still being worked out `` for a variety of reasons , but not because of the strike . ''
Bridget O'Brian contributed to this article .
Atco Ltd. said its utilities arm is considering building new electric power plants , some valued at more than one billion Canadian dollars -LRB- US$ 851 million -RRB- , in Great Britain and elsewhere .
C.S. Richardson , Atco 's senior vice president , finance , said its 50.1%-owned Canadian Utilities Ltd. unit is reviewing cogeneration projects in eastern Canada , and conventional electric power generating plants elsewhere , including Britain , where the British government plans to allow limited competition in electrical generation from private-sector suppliers as part of its privatization program .
`` The projects are big .
They can be C$ 1 billion plus , '' Mr. Richardson said .
`` But we would n't go into them alone , '' and Canadian Utilities ' equity stake would be small , he said .
`` Ideally , we 'd like to be the operator -LCB- of the project -RCB- and a modest equity investor .
Our long suit is our proven ability to operate '' power plants , he said .
Mr. Richardson would n't offer specifics regarding Atco 's proposed British project , but he said it would compete for customers with two huge British power generating companies that would be formed under the country 's plan to privatize its massive water and electric utilities .
Britain 's government plans to raise about # 20 billion -LRB- $ 31.05 billion -RRB- from the sale of most of its giant water and electric utilities , beginning next month .
The planned electric utility sale , scheduled for next year , is alone expected to raise # 13 billion , making it the world 's largest public offering .
Under terms of the plan , independent generators would be able to compete for 15 % of customers until 1994 , and for another 10 % between 1994 and 1998 .
Canadian Utilities had 1988 revenue of C$ 1.16 billion , mainly from its natural gas and electric utility businesses in Alberta , where the company serves about 800,000 customers .
`` There seems to be a move around the world to deregulate the generation of electricity , '' Mr. Richardson said , and Canadian Utilities hopes to capitalize on it .
`` This is a real thrust on our utility side , '' he said , adding that Canadian Utilities is also mulling projects in underdeveloped countries , though he would be specific .
Canadian Utilities is n't alone in exploring power generation opportunities in Britain , in anticipation of the privatization program .
`` We 're certainly looking at some power generating projects in England , '' said Bruce Stram , vice president , corporate strategy and corporate planning , with Enron Corp. , Houston , a big natural gas producer and pipeline operator .
Mr. Stram said Enron is considering building gas-fired power plants in the U.K. capable of producing about 500 megawatts of power at a cost of about $ 300 million to $ 400 million .
PSE Inc. said it expects to report third earnings of $ 1.3 million to $ 1.7 million , or 14 cents to 18 cents a share .
In the year-ago quarter , the designer and operator of cogeneration and waste heat recovery plants had net income of $ 326,000 , or four cents a share , on revenue of about $ 41.4 million .
The company said the improvement is related to additional cogeneration facilities that have been put into operation .
CONCORDE trans-Atlantic flights are $ 2,400 to Paris and $ 3,200 to London .
In a Centennial Journal article Oct. 5 , the fares were reversed .
Diamond Shamrock Offshore Partners said it had discovered gas offshore Louisiana .
The well flowed at a rate of 2.016 million cubic feet of gas a day through a 16 64-inch opening at depths between 5,782 and 5,824 feet .
Diamond Shamrock is the operator , with a 100 % interest in the well .
Diamond Shamrock Offshore 's stock rose 12.5 cents Friday to close at $ 8.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
Kaufman & Broad Home Corp. said it formed a $ 53.4 million limited partnership subsidiary to buy land in California suitable for residential development .
The partnership , Kaufman & Broad Land Development Venture Limited Partnership , is a 50-50 joint venture with a trust created by institutional clients of Heitman Advisory Corp. , a unit of Heitman Financial Corp. , a real estate advisory , management and development company with offices in Chicago and Beverly Hills , Calif .
Kaufman & Broad , a home building company , declined to identify the institutional investors .
The land to be purchased by the joint venture has n't yet received zoning and other approvals required for development , and part of Kaufman & Broad 's job will be to obtain such approvals .
The partnership runs the risk that it may not get the approvals for development , but in return , it can buy land at wholesale rather than retail prices , which can result in sizable savings , said Bruce Karatz , president and chief executive officer of Kaufman & Broad .
`` There are really very few companies that have adequate capital to buy properties in a raw state for cash .
Typically , developers option property , and then once they get the administrative approvals , they buy it , '' said Mr. Karatz , adding that he believes the joint venture is the first of its kind .
`` We usually operate in that conservative manner . ''
By setting up the joint venture , Kaufman & Broad can take the more aggressive approach of buying raw land , while avoiding the negative impacts to its own balance sheet , Mr. Karatz said .
The company is putting up only 10 % of the capital , although it is responsible for providing management , planning and processing services to the joint venture .
`` This is one of the best ways to assure a pipeline of land to fuel our growth at a minimum risk to our company , '' Mr. Karatz said .
When the price of plastics took off in 1987 , Quantum Chemical Corp. went along for the ride .
The timing of Quantum 's chief executive officer , John Hoyt Stookey , appeared to be nothing less than inspired , because he had just increased Quantum 's reliance on plastics .
The company outpaced much of the chemical industry as annual profit grew fivefold in two years .
Mr. Stookey said of the boom , `` It 's going to last a whole lot longer than anybody thinks . ''
But now prices have nose-dived and Quantum 's profit is plummeting .
Some securities analysts are looking for no better than break-even results from the company for the third quarter , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million .
The stock , having lost nearly a quarter of its value since Sept. 1 , closed at $ 34.375 share , down $ 1.125 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday .
To a degree , Quantum represents the new times that have arrived for producers of the so-called commodity plastics that pervade modern life .
Having just passed through one of the most profitable periods in their history , these producers now see their prices eroding .
Pricing cycles , to be sure , are nothing new for plastics producers .
And the financial decline of some looks steep only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them .
`` We were all wonderful heroes last year , '' says an executive at one of Quantum 's competitors .
`` Now we 're at the bottom of the heap . ''
At Quantum , which is based in New York , the trouble is magnified by the company 's heavy dependence on plastics .
Once known as National Distillers & Chemical Corp. , the company exited the wine and spirits business and plowed more of its resources into plastics after Mr. Stookey took the chief executive 's job in 1986 .
Mr. Stookey , 59 years old , declined to be interviewed for this article , but he has consistently argued that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- Quantum will prosper through its new direction .
Quantum 's lot is mostly tied to polyethylene resin , used to make garbage bags , milk jugs , housewares , toys and meat packaging , among other items .
In the U.S. polyethylene market , Quantum has claimed the largest share , about 20 % .
But its competitors -- including Dow Chemical Co. , Union Carbide Corp. and several oil giants -- have much broader business interests and so are better cushioned against price swings .
When the price of polyethylene moves a mere penny a pound , Quantum 's annual profit fluctuates by about 85 cents a share , provided no other variables are changing .
In recent months the price of polyethylene , even more than that of other commodity plastics , has taken a dive .
Benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , have skidded to between 35 cents and 40 cents .
Meanwhile , the price of ethylene , the chemical building block of polyethylene , has n't dropped nearly so fast .
That discrepancy hurts Quantum badly , because its own plants cover only about half of its ethylene needs .
By many accounts , an early hint of a price rout in the making came at the start of this year .
China , which had been putting in huge orders for polyethylene , abruptly halted them .
Calculating that excess polyethylene would soon be sloshing around the world , other buyers then bet that prices had peaked and so began to draw down inventories rather than order new product .
Kenneth Mitchell , director of Dow 's polyethylene business , says producers were surprised to learn how much inventories had swelled throughout the distribution chain as prices spiraled up .
`` People were even hoarding bags , '' he says .
Now producers hope prices have hit bottom .
They recently announced increases of a few cents a pound to take effect in the next several weeks .
No one knows , however , whether the new posted prices will stick once producers and customers start to haggle .
One doubter is George Krug , a chemical-industry analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. and a bear on plastics stocks .
Noting others ' estimates of when price increases can be sustained , he remarks , `` Some say October .
Some say November .
I say 1992 . ''
He argues that efforts to firm up prices will be undermined by producers ' plans to expand production capacity .
A quick turnaround is crucial to Quantum because its cash requirements remain heavy .
The company is trying to carry out a three-year , $ 1.3 billion plant-expansion program started this year .
At the same time , its annual payments on long-term debt will more than double from a year ago to about $ 240 million , largely because of debt taken on to pay a $ 50-a-share special dividend earlier this year .
Quantum described the payout at the time as a way for it to share the bonanza with its holders , because its stock price was n't reflecting the huge profit increases .
Some analysts saw the payment as an effort also to dispel takeover speculation .
Whether a cash crunch might eventually force the company to cut its quarterly dividend , raised 36 % to 75 cents a share only a year ago , has become a topic of intense speculation on Wall Street since Mr. Stookey deflected dividend questions in a Sept. 29 meeting with analysts .
Some viewed his response -- that company directors review the dividend regularly -- as nothing more than the standard line from executives .
But others came away thinking he had given something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance .
In any case , on the day of the meeting , Quantum 's shares slid $ 2.625 to $ 36.625 in Big Board trading .
On top of everything else , Quantum confronts a disaster at its plant in Morris , Ill .
After an explosion idled the plant in June , the company progressed in September to within 12 hours of completing the drawn-out process of restarting it .
Then a second explosion occurred .
Two workers died and six remain in the hospital .
This human toll adds the most painful dimension yet to the sudden change in Quantum 's fortunes .
Until this year , the company had been steadily lowering its accident rate and picking up trade-group safety awards .
A prolonged production halt at the plant could introduce another imponderable into Quantum 's financial future .
When a plant has just been running flat out to meet demand , calculating lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance is straightforward .
But the numbers become trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- when demand is shifting .
`` You say you could have sold X percent of this product and Y percent of that , '' recalls Theodore Semegran , an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton who went through this exercise during his former career as a chemical engineer .
`` And then you still have to negotiate . ''
Quantum hopes the Morris plant , where limited production got under way last week , will resume full operation by year 's end .
The plant usually accounts for 20 % to 25 % of Quantum 's polyethylene production and 50 % of its ethylene production .
Not everything looks grim for Quantum .
The plant expansion should strengthen the company 's sway in the polyethylene business , where market share is often taken through sheer capacity .
By lifting ethylene production , the expansion will also lower the company 's raw material costs .
Quantum is also tightening its grip on its one large business outside chemicals , propane marketing .
Through a venture with its investment banker , First Boston Corp. , Quantum completed in August an acquisition of Petrolane Inc. in a transaction valued at $ 1.18 billion .
Petrolane is the second-largest propane distributor in the U.S. .
The largest , Suburban Propane , was already owned by Quantum .
Still , Quantum has a crisis to get past right now .
Some analysts speculate the weakening stock may yet attract a suitor .
The name surfacing in rumors is British Petroleum Co. , which is looking to expand its polyethylene business in the U.S. .
Asked about a bid for Quantum , a BP spokesman says , `` We pretty much have a policy of not commenting on rumors , and I think that falls in that category .
RJR Nabisco Inc. is disbanding its division responsible for buying network advertising time , just a month after moving 11 of the group 's 14 employees to New York from Atlanta .
A spokesman for the New York-based food and tobacco giant , taken private earlier this year in a $ 25 billion leveraged buy-out by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. , confirmed that it is shutting down the RJR Nabisco Broadcast unit , and dismissing its 14 employees , in a move to save money .
The spokesman said RJR is discussing its network-buying plans with its two main advertising firms , FCB\/Leber Katz and McCann Erickson .
`` We found with the size of our media purchases that an ad agency could do just as good a job at significantly lower cost , '' said the spokesman , who declined to specify how much RJR spends on network television time .
An executive close to the company said RJR is spending about $ 140 million on network television time this year , down from roughly $ 200 million last year .
The spokesman said the broadcast unit will be disbanded Dec. 1 , and the move wo n't affect RJR 's print , radio and spot-television buying practices .
The broadcast group had been based in New York until a year ago , when RJR 's previous management moved it to Atlanta , the company 's headquarters before this summer .
One employee with the group said RJR moved 11 employees of the group back to New York in September because `` there was supposed to be a future . ''
He said the company hired three more buyers for the unit within the past two weeks , wooing them from jobs with advertising agencies .
The RJR spokesman said the company moved the 11 employees to New York last month because the group had then been in the midst of purchasing ad time for the networks ' upcoming season .
`` The studies -LCB- on closing the unit -RCB- could n't be completed until now , '' he said .
The group 's president , Peter Chrisanthopoulos , was n't in his office Friday afternoon to comment .
The U.S. , which is finalizing its steel-import quotas , is allocating a larger share of its steel market to developing and newly industrialized countries which have relatively unsubsidized steel industries .
Meanwhile , the U.S. has negotiated a significant cut in Japan 's steel quota , and made only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the European Community .
Brazil , similar to Mexico and South Korea , is expected to negotiate a somewhat bigger share of the U.S. market than it had under the previous five-year steel quotas , which expired Sept. 30 .
Brazil and Venezuela are the only two countries that have n't completed steel talks with the U.S. for the year ending Oct. 1 , 1990 .
In recent years , U.S. steelmakers have supplied about 80 % of the 100 million tons of steel used annually by the nation .
Of the remaining 20 % needed , the steel-quota negotiations allocate about 15 % to foreign suppliers , with the difference supplied mainly by Canada -- which is n't included in the quota program .
Other countries that do n't have formal steel quotas with the U.S. , such as Taiwan , Sweden and Argentina , also have supplied steel .
Some of these countries have in recent years made informal agreements with the U.S. that are similar to quotas .
The Bush administration earlier this year said it would extend steel quotas , known as voluntary restraint agreements , until March 31 , 1992 .
It also said it would use that two-and-a-half year period to work toward an international consensus on freeing up the international steel trade , which has been notoriously managed , subsidized and protected by governments .
The U.S. termed its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' despite the fact that it is merely an extension .
Mexico , which was one of the first countries to conclude its steel talks with the U.S. , virtually doubled its quota to 0.95 % of the U.S. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas .
South Korea , which had 1.9 % under the previous quotas , is set to get a small increase to about 1.95 % .
That increase rises to slightly more than 2 % of the U.S. market if a joint Korean-U.S. steel project is included .
Meanwhile , Brazil is expected to increase its allowance from the 1.43 % share it has had in recent years .
The EC and Japan -- the U.S. 's largest steel suppliers -- have n't been filling their quotas to the full extent .
The EC steel industry , which has been coping with strong European demand , has been supplying about 5 % of the U.S. market compared with recent quotas of about 6.7 % .
Japan has been shipping steel to total about 4.5 % of the U.S. market compared with a quota of 5.9 % .
In the recent talks , the EC had its quota increased about 300,000 tons , to 7 % of the U.S. market from 6.7 % in 1988 .
But its quota has been as high as 6.9 % in 1984 .
Japan , however , has agreed to cut its quota to about 5 % from 5.9 % previously .
Japan , the EC , Brazil , Mexico and South Korea provide about 80 % of the steel imported to the U.S. under the quota program .
The balance is supplied by a host of smaller exporters , such as Australia and Venezuela .
The U.S. had about an extra 2 % of the domestic steel market to give to foreign suppliers in its quota talks .
That was essentially made up of a 1 % increase in the overall quota program and 1 % from cutting Japan 's allowance .
Negotiators from the White House trade office will repeat these quota negotiations next year when they will have another 1 % of the U.S. steel market to allocate .
These optional 1%-a-year increases to the steel quota program are built into the Bush administration 's steel-quota program to give its negotiators leverage with foreign steel suppliers to try to get them to withdraw subsidies and protectionism from their own steel industries .
Elcotel Inc. expects fiscal second-quarter earnings to trail 1988 results , but anticipates that several new products will lead to a `` much stronger '' performance in its second half .
Elcotel , a telecommunications company , had net income of $ 272,000 , or five cents a share , in its year-earlier second quarter , ended Sept. 30 .
Revenue totaled $ 5 million .
George Pierce , chairman and chief executive officer , said in an interview that earnings in the most recent quarter will be about two cents a share on revenue of just under $ 4 million .
The lower results , Mr. Pierce said , reflect a 12-month decline in industry sales of privately owned pay telephones , Elcotel 's primary business .
Although Mr. Pierce expects that line of business to strengthen in the next year , he said Elcotel will also benefit from moving into other areas .
Foremost among those is the company 's entrance into the public facsimile business , Mr. Pierce said .
Within the next year , Elcotel expects to place 10,000 fax machines , made by Minolta in Japan , in hotels , municipal buildings , drugstores and other public settings around the country .
Elcotel will provide a credit-card reader for the machines to collect , store and forward billing data .
Mr. Pierce said Elcotel should realize a minimum of $ 10 of recurring net earnings for each machine each month .
Elcotel has also developed an automatic call processor that will make further use of the company 's system for automating and handling credit-card calls and collect calls .
Automatic call processors will provide that system for virtually any telephone , Mr. Pierce said , not just phones produced by Elcotel .
The company will also be producing a new line of convenience telephones , which do n't accept coins , for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings .
Mr. Pierce estimated that the processors and convenience phones would produce about $ 5 of recurring net earnings for each machine each month .
Britain 's retail price index rose 0.7 % in September from August and was up 7.6 % for the year , the Central Statistical Office said .
Quest Medical Inc. said it adopted a shareholders ' rights plan in which rights to purchase shares of common stock will be distributed as a dividend to shareholders of record as of Oct. 23 .
The company said the plan was n't adopted in response to any known offers for Quest , a maker and marketer of hospital products .
The rights allow shareholders to purchase Quest stock at a discount if any person or group acquires more than 15 % of the company 's common stock or announces a tender offer .
Measuring cups may soon be replaced by tablespoons in the laundry room .
Procter & Gamble Co. plans to begin testing next month a superconcentrated detergent that will require only a few spoonfuls per washload .
The move stems from lessons learned in Japan where local competitors have had phenomenal success with concentrated soapsuds .
It also marks P&G 's growing concern that its Japanese rivals , such as Kao Corp. , may bring their superconcentrates to the U.S. .
The Cincinnati consumer-products giant got clobbered two years ago in Japan when Kao introduced a powerful detergent , called Attack , which quickly won a 30 % stake in the Japanese markets .
`` They do n't want to get caught again , '' says one industry watcher .
Retailers in Phoenix , Ariz. , say P&G 's new powdered detergent -- to be called Cheer with Color Guard -- will be on shelves in that market by early November .
A P&G spokeswoman confirmed that shipments to Phoenix started late last month .
She said the company will study results from this market before expanding to others .
Superconcentrates are n't entirely new for P&G .
The company introduced a superconcentrated Lemon Cheer in Japan after watching the success of Attack .
When Attack hit the shelves in 1987 , P&G 's share of the Japanese market fell to about 8 % from more than 20 % .
With the help of Lemon Cheer , P&G 's share is now estimated to be 12 % .
While the Japanese have embraced the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products , the true test for P&G will be in the $ 4 billion U.S. detergent market , where growth is slow and liquids have gained prominence over powders .
The company may have chosen to market the product under the Cheer name since it 's already expanded its best-selling Tide into 16 different varieties , including this year 's big hit , Tide with Bleach .
With superconcentrates , however , it is n't always easy to persuade consumers that less is more ; many people tend to dump too much detergent into the washing machine , believing that it takes a cup of powder to really clean the laundry .
In the early 1980s , P&G tried to launch here a concentrated detergent under the Ariel brand name that it markets in Europe .
But the product , which was n't as concentrated as the new Cheer , bombed in a market test in Denver and was dropped .
P&G and others also have tried repeatedly to hook consumers on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches , but they have n't sold well , despite the convenience .
But P&G contends the new Cheer is a unique formula that also offers an ingredient that prevents colors from fading .
And retailers are expected to embrace the product , in part because it will take up less shelf space .
`` When shelf space was cheap , bigger was better , '' says Hugh Zurkuhlen , an analyst at Salomon Bros .
But with so many brands vying for space , that 's no longer the case .
If the new Cheer sells well , the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate as competitors follow with their own superconcentrates .
Then retailers `` will probably push the -LCB- less-established -RCB- brands out altogether , '' he says .
Competition is bound to get tougher if Kao introduces a product like Attack in the U.S. .
To be sure , Kao would n't have an easy time taking U.S. market share away from the mighty P&G , which has about 23 % of the market .
Kao officials previously have said they are interested in selling detergents in the U.S. , but so far the company has focused on acquisitions , such as last year 's purchase of Andrew Jergens Co. , a Cincinnati hand-lotion maker .
It also has a product-testing facility in California .
Some believe P&G 's interest in a superconcentrated detergent goes beyond the concern for the Japanese .
`` This is something P&G would do with or without Kao , '' says Mr. Zurkuhlen .
With economic tension between the U.S. and Japan worsening , many Japanese had feared last week 's visit from U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills .
They expected a new barrage of demands that Japan do something quickly to reduce its trade surplus with the U.S. .
Instead , they got a discussion of the need for the U.S. and Japan to work together and of the importance of the long-term view .
Mrs. Hills ' first trip to Japan as America 's chief trade negotiator had a completely different tone from last month 's visit by Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher .
Mr. Mosbacher called for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental Japanese business practices that supposedly inhibit free trade .
He said such results should be `` measurable in dollars and cents '' in reducing the U.S. trade deficit with Japan .
But Mrs. Hills , speaking at a breakfast meeting of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan on Saturday , stressed that the objective `` is not to get definitive action by spring or summer , it is rather to have a blueprint for action . ''
She added that she expected `` perhaps to have a down payment ... some small step to convince the American people and the Japanese people that we 're moving in earnest . ''
How such remarks translate into policy wo n't become clear for months .
American and Japanese officials offered several theories for the difference in approach betwen Mr. Mosbacher and Mrs. Hills .
Many called it simply a contrast in styles .
But some saw it as a classic negotiating tactic .
Others said the Bush administration may feel the rhetoric on both sides is getting out of hand .
And some said it reflected the growing debate in Washington over pursuing free trade with Japan versus some kind of managed trade .
Asked to compare her visit to Mr. Mosbacher 's , Mrs. Hills replied : `` I did n't hear every word he spoke , but as a general proposition , I think we have a very consistent trade strategy in the Bush administration . ''
Yet more than one American official who sat in with her during three days of talks with Japanese officials said her tone often was surprisingly `` conciliatory . ''
`` I think my line has been very consistent , '' Mrs. Hills said at a news conference Saturday afternoon .
`` I am painted sometimes as ferocious , perhaps because I have a ferocious list of statutes to implement .
I do n't feel very ferocious .
I do n't feel either hard or soft .
I feel committed to the program of opening markets and expanding trade . ''
When she met the local press for the first time on Friday , Mrs. Hills firmly reiterated the need for progress in removing barriers to trade in forest products , satellites and supercomputers , three areas targeted under the Super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill .
She highlighted exclusionary business practices that the U.S. government has identified .
But her main thrust was to promote the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition .
She said the trade imbalance was mainly due to macroeconomic factors and should n't be tackled by setting quantitative targets .
At her news conference for Japanese reporters , one economics journalist summed up the Japanese sense of relief .
`` My impression was that you would be a scary old lady , '' he said , drawing a few nervous chuckles from his colleagues .
`` But I am relieved to see that you are beautiful and gentle and intelligent and a person of integrity . ''
Mrs. Hills ' remarks did raise questions , at least among some U.S. officials , about what exactly her stance is on U.S. access to the Japanese semiconductor market .
The U.S. share of the Japanese market has been stuck around 10 % for years .
Many Americans have interpreted a 1986 agreement as assuring U.S. companies a 20 % share by 1991 , but the Japanese have denied making any such promise .
At one of her news conferences , Mrs. Hills said , `` I believe we can do much better than 20 % . ''
But she stressed , `` I am against managed trade .
I will not enter into an agreement that stipulates to a percentage of the market .
Traditional Industries Inc. said it expects to report a net loss for the fourth quarter that ended June 30 and is seeking new financing .
The seller of photographic products and services said it is considering a number of financing alternatives , including seeking increases in its credit lines .
Traditional declined to estimate the amount of the loss and would n't say if it expects to show a profit for the year .
In the year ended June 30 , 1988 , Traditional reported net income of $ 4.9 million , or $ 1.21 a share .
The company did n't break out its fourth-quarter results .
In the latest nine months net income was $ 4.7 million , or $ 1.31 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million .
Separately , the company said it would file a delayed fiscal-year report with the Securities and Exchange Commission `` within approximately 45 days . ''
It said the delay resulted from difficulties in resolving its accounting of a settlement with the Federal Trade Commission .
Under an agreement filed in federal court in August to settle FTC objections to some Traditional sales practices , Traditional said it would establish a $ 250,000 trust fund to provide refunds to certain customers .
Information International Inc. said it was sued by a buyer of its computerized newspaper-publishing system , alleging that the company failed to correct deficiencies in the system .
A spokesman for Information International said the lawsuit by two units of Morris Communications Corp. seeks restitution of the system 's about $ 3 million purchase price and cancellation of a software license provided by the Morris units to Information International for alleged failure to pay royalties .
Information International said it believes that the complaints , filed in federal court in Georgia , are without merit .
Closely held Morris Communications is based in Augusta , Ga .
The units that filed the suit are Southeastern Newspapers Corp. and Florida Publishing Co .
Syms Corp. completed the sale of its A. Sulka & Co. subsidiary , a men 's luxury haberdashery , to Luxco Investments .
Terms were n't disclosed .
As Syms 's `` core business of off-price retailing grows , a small subsidiary that is operationally unrelated becomes a difficult distraction , '' said Marcy Syms , president of the parent , in a statement .
A spokeswoman said Sulka operates a total of seven stores in the U.S. and overseas .
Syms operates 25 off-price apparel stores in the U.S. .
The oil industry 's middling profits could persist through the rest of the year .
Major oil companies in the next few days are expected to report much less robust earnings than they did for the third quarter a year ago , largely reflecting deteriorating chemical prices and gasoline profitability .
The gasoline picture may improve this quarter , but chemicals are likely to remain weak , industry executives and analysts say , reducing chances that profits could equal their year-earlier performance .
The industry is `` seeing a softening somewhat in volume and certainly in price in petrochemicals , '' Glenn Cox , president of Phillips Petroleum Co. , said in an interview .
`` That change will obviously impact third and fourth quarter earnings '' for the industry in general , he added .
He did n't forecast Phillips 's results .
But securities analysts say Phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and will probably post a drop in third-quarter earnings .
So , too , many analysts predict , will Exxon Corp. , Chevron Corp. and Amoco Corp .
Typical is what happened to the price of ethylene , a major commodity chemical produced in vast amounts by many oil companies .
It has plunged 13 % since July to around 26 cents a pound .
A year ago ethylene sold for 33 cents , peaking at about 34 cents last December .
A big reason for the chemical price retreat is overexpansion .
Beginning in mid-1987 , prices began accelerating as a growing U.S. economy and the weak dollar spurred demand .
